well how do their internet people it's
bogey and tonight we've got an
interesting conversation and if you're
not familiar this is guy who's taking on
Nancy Pelosi in the primary so we're
gonna hear about primary by someone who
is kind of actually on the left for once
so why did you start to do this well I
mean when you're jumping into politics
and you're going after
that's start with I did yeah I say to
people that I don't have political
aspirations I just have very deep
political frustrations and I'm tired of
being misrepresented in Washington
basically it's that simple I live in a
city where the United Nations was
founded and our voice facilitates human
rights abuses I live in a city that's
dedicated to global peace and justice
and our voice in Washington funds every
war that's ever been proposed during the
time that she's represented our city in
in DC and we're a city that's committed
for instance our Board of Supervisors
unanimously supports universal health
care but our voice in Washington refuses
and so I'm running to liberate our
cities voice in Congress to make sure
that San Francisco can finally get a
voice aligned with our city to inform
the federal policy process all right
okay so we've been talking a lot on my
channel
are you a social democrat a democratic
socialist a what what are you I'm way
left of where we're at now and I'm eager
to push it as far as it can go my first
act of academic scholarship 20 years ago
I wrote a thesis that got me understand
for law school about how to effectuate
through trust in a state's reform
adequate wealth redistribution through a
marketing which is to say carving new
ground in this construction of what does
the future look like
I'm also separate from that agenda very
eager to for instance nationalize
weapons magnify
fossil fuel extraction companies
resource extraction companies generally
to make sure the profit does not in here
in plunder so that's you know well to
the left of what the established system
is I'm also though I make a strong point
about the D back in Democratic Socialist
I'm very grateful for the endorsement
Democratic socialists of America in San
Francisco and you know what that means
is that I'm particularly concerned about
the intersection of surveillance keeping
our neighbors silent and preventing them
from being able to raise their voices
about whatever might matter to them
executive secrecy keeping Congress and
the courts in the dark
threats to voting rights that prevent us
from even having control over our
process and and and then finally the
loss of the Independence of the courts
and I have ideas and solutions in each
of those four vectors so as an immigrant
to the United States and I was brought
to this country to be free I was 2 years
old when my family came here I grew up
in rural Missouri I got out of the south
side of Chicago to study and then teach
law at Stanford and during the 20 years
that I've been fighting for civil rights
in the United States I have witnessed
the rise of bipartisan fascism and it is
the unfortunate sad and unacceptable
complicity of the corporate Democratic
Party in all of these different
dimensions of authoritarianism that
ultimately forced my hand in into the
race you know I I can't watch this go
down from the sidelines knowing - well
how policy actually operates in
Washington I may have to eat my words
here because I recently just said we
don't have any actual leftist running
okay so you talked about you you you
fought for civil rights that was with
Electronic Frontier right yeah and
before that you know a tff my work was
particularly around surveillance and net
neutrality there might be trypsin the
right to repair 15 years before that I
was an early advocate for marriage
equality and that was when I was in
private practice working at a law firm
and I was representing the second mayor
in the country to recognize the rights
of my neighbors to marry a partner of
their choice I've fought for civil
rights across a few different contacts
also immigrant rights
Civil Rights in the face of police
persecution and predation
that's a spectrum of limits so we gotta
ask the one question how are you gonna
beat Pelosi that's that's what I want to
know it's the million dollar question
yeah I said it to this point we have our
foot in the door I'm in the general
election so we have a top two primary
system in California and I won second
place last week so we now have the
chance to face off one and more
one-on-one against her in November and
I'll be the first challenger that she's
faced in a general election from within
the Democratic Party in the thirty years
that she's been in Congress and you know
our campaign is very much built on the
premise that San Francisco stands very
well to her left at the moment the city
remains relatively uninformed about how
Pelosi shows up in Congress she still
has a reputation of being a lion of the
left even though she supports Trump's
trade policy and even though she
supports Trump's foreign policy and even
though she supports Trump's fiscal
austerity rules and slow-walked and then
limited an impeachment process that
failed even though we could have won it
you know a lot of people still think of
Pelosi because they see her on MSNBC
tearing up speeches and shady clapping
and pointing across a table and putting
on her sunglasses as she's sternly
walking out of a meeting that we're
basically running to deconstruct the
myth of the photo ops and this really
comes down to just knocking on doors
we've got an army of volunteers
literally hundreds just in the Bay Area
thousands across the country and between
my neighbors and allies who are pounding
pavement and knocking on the doors with
me and our neighbors who are organizing
phone banks in their various cities
around the country we've had about a
half doesn't happen so far from Los
Angeles to New York and anybody who
wants to get Pelosi out of office and
liberate San Francisco's voice in
Congress or alternatively end the
corporate control of the Democratic
Party is welcome to jump in the
volunteer invitation is open to anybody
and folks can go on our website Shaheed
for change to us to learn more into
volunteer that's fantastic
yeah she she does she has a reputation
and as you know it's funny because we
talked about in our channel you know
it's the Lion of the left yeah but she's
not left she sent it right you know and
there there's a large part of the
Democratic Party that's cool with that I
don't know that there's a large part of
San Francisco that's cool with that so I
mean if you're gonna do it you picked
the right place to do it and you know
there's a whole lot of people going
after the establishment dimes right now
and I just are y'all talking to each
other at all or yeah yeah there's no
I've endorsed for instance Lauren
Ashcraft
and Isaiah James in New York endorsed
Heidi Sloane and taxes and Jessica
Cisneros who unfortunately lost her
challenge to Henry Cuellar largely
because Nancy Pelosi insisted on
supporting the most conservative
Democrat in the House an anti-choice
anti frankly Democrat and and and helped
him defeat a progressive woman lawyer of
color who was running on the civil
rights platform vision of the future to
expand the squad who Pelosi continues to
kick down the stairs and so you know the
Alliance among us that's emerging is
part of the reason why I frankly I'm
running for the seat I see the person
I'm confronting as playing a
particularly crucial role in
consolidating not just corporate rule
and we can see how that in Flex
everything from predatory health care at
a time when we needed to be free in
order to deal sensibly with the global
pandemic to Wars for profit and plunder
abroad that she funds and facilitates at
every opportunity and she consistently
puts corporations before her
constituents and at the end of the day I
think that the voice not just of San
Francisco but I think the rest of the
country is aligned in wanting the United
States to join the rest of the
industrialized world and making sure
that we don't kick our sick and ill
neighbors into the street just because
they can't pay for the doctor making
sure that your grandkids have a shot at
a livable viable future a chance not
just to survive but hopefully to thrive
and that's the OP that's the kind of
opportunity but not just Republicans but
corporate Democrats too have been
frankly assaulting for decades and I
thankfully don't have children but I
have nephews and nieces and I have
friends with kids and supporters with
kids and I'm here to defend them and the
future from the failures of our
predatory corporate past represented
principally by Nancy Pelosi so when it
comes to we've definitely got a good
overview of your platform here when it
comes to specifics Medicare for all well
just blanket support for it where we add
on that absolutely point could support
the way I describe it in the way I
present San Francisco is is the
intersectional benefits that it will all
of it through the lens of you know how
much do I want to pay for my corporate
health insurance plan with a high
deductible and all these you know
exclusions and there's limitations of
what doctors I can see versus a
medicare-for-all framework where you can
choose your own doctor you can get the
preventive care that you need the
medicines are very low cost no under
Bernie's plan they're capped at you know
under $250 a year per person that's the
plan I endorse I particularly look
presented to San Franciscans as a
solution or at least one among many to
our homelessness crisis people forget
that the leading cause of homelessness
and this is preposterous is medical
bankruptcy and and it is morally
bankrupt that medical bankruptcy plays
such a prominent role in driving
homelessness and I think there's a a
very visible crisis in San Francisco
with respect to our failure to provide
housing to all of our residents and I
think Medicare for all would not only
improve our public health outcomes
dramatically drive down the costs
relieve the burden facing sick and ill
patients and their families and it would
keep people in their homes and I think
that's really really important at a time
like this I I especially think it's
crucial in the context of the corona
virus because the only way to prevent
contagion is to make sure that everybody
can get tested and the fact that there
are people who are not being tested
as they can't afford to get the test is
it's not just foolish it is literally
self spiteful in defeating we are
inviting a pandemic because we're too
stupid to allow people to get access to
the care and the resources not just that
they need but that we need each other to
have we all share a need for each other
to have access to care and the fact that
we resign care to predatory health
insurance companies and pharmaceutical
companies that practice arbitrary
pricing is just a signal that we're too
willing to put profit before people and
corporations before communities I think
this is a signature issue for the left
and the future and frankly we need it in
order to allow working Americans the
opportunity to simply survive in in the
current economy and I'm super into the
green New Deal the way I present it in
San Francisco around climate resiliency
projects enabled by the federal jobs
guarantee so our one of our principal
challenges in California writ large not
just San Francisco but particularly
across Northern California are the
wildfires that have with increasing
frequency devastated our state each of
the last several years particularly in
the fall when the the forests are drying
out we have high wind season and it's
very prone to devastating wildfires
which would cost billions of dollars in
dozens of lives over the last few years
alone largely due to the malfeasance and
negligence of a private utility company
I'd also like to nationalise utility
companies to make sure that they're
doing what they need to do to put safety
before profits but beyond that
opportunity for prevention one of the
things that we knew deal could mean in
California is the employment of a
generation of young people to basically
replicate the kind of traditional forest
management techniques that were
practiced by indigenous Americans before
the genocide and that's a high labor low
it's you know the green new jobs federal
job guarantee will have a minimum wage
and I'm hoping to peg that at least at
$15 an hour but without that jobs
guarantee this is low wage work that's
why the market hasn't been able to do it
and because we've resigned
so much of what need to be
electively shared responsibilities to
the market near the construction of
affordable housing for instance it just
doesn't happen and that's why I want to
greet New Deal for for housing to ensure
that we have publicly owned social
housing owned by the people managed by
communities accountable so the residents
these are opportunities for us to pool
our resources to defray the challenges
that individuals and and and our
families confront alone we in this day
and age I think so many Americans are
are are staggering under the brunt of
predatory health care if not for
themselves and for their kids or their
ailing parents everybody gets sick
eventually and and it's senseless that
we use it as an opportunity for
corporate extraction I'd much rather see
us as a civilization and a society
Schutz to put ourselves in each other
first and that's the green new deal
represents that not just with respect to
each other but also the future
generations that don't have a chance to
even raise their voices at the moment
I'm if I may just as a bit of a not
exactly a digression but just a tangent
when people talk about the green you
deal obviously one of the things we're
concerned about is climate justice and
for me just to demonstrate another
intersection that gets often overlooked
one of the reasons I care so deeply
about civil liberties and the right to
dissent is particularly because of how
it's been impacted or how it has
impacted climate justice and energy
policy a lot of Americans don't realize
that the constitutional crisis when we
started jailing dissidents as terrorists
that didn't happen after the 9/11
attacks that started in the 90s under
Clinton frankly it started back in the
50s during the McCarthy era but on even
under Clinton Americans were being
jailed convicted of terror offenses for
environmentally motivated vandalism so
we had a radical earth rights movement
in the 90s in the United States that was
criminalized driven abroad and driven
underground and I wonder how much
different my power energy policy be and
our climate policy be and how much less
severe might the climate crisis be if we
listened to the generation of
environmental activists who were warning
us thirty years ago that we were racing
humanity off a cliff instead of
vilifying them and criminalized
I see that dynamic replicated in lots of
different ways we need to protect
dissent not just to guard our rights but
also to enable sensible policy decisions
that never happen otherwise because in
this scenario we've locked up the
dissidents and we've given corporations
the keys to the castle all right
okay what about immigration I am an
immigrant myself and so I'm very
committed to immigrant rights I see the
Trump administration readying an attack
on naturalized citizens which hits very
close to home because I am one the
president wants to strip me of my
citizenship and I want to make this
clear I am a more loyal and faithful
American than our criminal president has
ever been and ever will be and that's
true for millions of US immigrants who
are dedicated to the principles of our
Constitution and our country and we
don't need a racist billionaire to make
it great again what we need in order to
make it great again
our opportunities for working families
to lead viable eyes without being preyed
upon by predatory police or private
utility companies that put our
communities at risk with respect to
immigration the the need to allow labor
to migrate we could justify it even in
strictly neoliberal terms if we wanted
to write capital flows liberally and
that helps markets yes this weakness and
interesting study acts and what helps
morning you see that can drive them to
the floor but liberalizing my labor
migration flows also serves the economy
even if we don't view it through the
Liberatore socialist lens that says
people have a human right to for
instance be with their family or
alternatively escape violence or
alternatively escape climate chaos a lot
of folks don't realize that the refugees
on our southern border they're being
driven by a drought which is itself
inextricably related to the climate
crisis it's partly it's in a big way our
fault and you know this it's not like
we're you know passive observers as
these people are washing up on our
shores we've destabilized the places
that they're come that they're that
they're coming from often with violence
and encouraging paramilitary assaults on
the rights of communities and we have
an important thing to remember with
respect to immigration there is we
fought a world war to establish an
international right to asylum if you
fear where you live the international
community our planet our species has
decided you have a right to flee and
anywhere has an obligation to accept you
to at least give you a chance to say why
you have a right to be there and we
didn't lose that right to the Nazis we
didn't lose that right in a war we've
lost that right to Donald Trump and the
deference of corporate Democrats who
have endorsed his border militarization
more recently shutting it down entirely
the detention camps that Trump proposed
that Pelosi funded in which thousands of
people are being illegally held when
they have a right to be in the United
States seeking asylum through a legal
process and maybe the closer look there
I see the attacks on immigrant rights as
precursors to attacks on the rights of
all Americans we are Canaries in a
constitutional coal mine and a lot of
Americans have come to fear fascism in
the last four years I've been fighting
fascism in the United States since 2001
and I've recognized it in those terms
and as an immigrant Muslim I have a lot
of skin in the game and in the very same
fights that Pelosi has been unwilling to
have the places where she's been all too
willing to go along to get along I want
to put someone like barbara lee who will
actually who has voted against the
Patriot Act who did vote against the war
in Iraq votes where Pelosi failed where
she went along with the executive branch
I want to put a real congressional
leader like barbara Lee and the
speaker's seat and get her the gavel and
that's going to require removing Nancy
Pelosi so let's see the second amendment
guns
okay that's San Francisco Phil about
that so the city is very committed to
essential sensible restrictions to
ensure the safety of our communities the
background checks are a bare-bones
example I would like to see limits on
assault-style weapons and there's I have
a an analysis here about an article some
time ago Ferguson and the Second
Amendment that attempts to to some
extent bridge the gap between sure
left and right analyses of the Second
Amendment so you have conservatives who
will often say the Second Amendment is
our right to bear weapons and without
having weapons we're not free and you
have liberals who say that's insane we
live in communities and people die every
day at the hands of each other and it's
the guns that are killing us so can we
just get these off the streets and we
can all live please and one of the
historical evolutions that people
overlook in this debate is the rise of
paramilitary police so I would suggest
that the Second Amendment is not about
the right to bear arms at all that's
what the text says but when the
Constitution was being written the right
to bear arms the reason it's there what
is the purpose of the right to bear arms
the purpose in the constitutional design
was an escape hatch the First Amendment
are a right to escalating series of
opportunities to participate in a
political process the right to your own
beliefs the right to write about them
the right to publish to gather people to
petition the government the Second
Amendment is the escape hatch if all
else fails and and tyranny emerges we
have the right to resist it that's what
the Second Amendment is is a right to
resist tyranny
what foreclosed that the emergence of
paramilitary police the militarization
of police in the United States renders
the right to bear arms disconnected from
the right to resist because you can't
resist a country that is militarily
occupied in every community that's what
we are living under today militarized
police basically occupy every urban
center across the United States and
resistance through arms is entirely
untenable and so when Second Amendment
enthusiasts say conservatives say our
right to bear arms keeps us safe they
forget that your right to bear arms
doesn't do anything of the sort anymore
and as an example I just I you know
they're all these vets you come home who
you know many of them can't get access
to services you know a lot of them you
know that have struggle with housing
there have been any number of cases of
vets who've been targeted for assaults
like SWAT raids particularly because
they might be involved in something
listen and they're highly trained people
and usually a couple members of the SWAT
teams end up you know injured or dead
and and so does the person that they go
after because no single person can
resist a SWAT team is just it's
impossible right when you have a lot of
highly
train people only organized resistance
can combat it and unless that I'll be
honest with you here I do think
occasionally about V and I do fear and
the FBI is investigated and frankly gone
very soft on the armed and organized
right-wing militias that frankly are the
only locus of possible resistance to
militarized police but the right to bear
arms I think people misconstrue what it
means and I like to take it back to the
right to resistance in my mind what the
Second Amendment means today is a right
to hack the government to exfiltrate
information that is kept from US
illegally and unconstitutionally
illegitimately we the people are
sovereign the Second Amendment right to
resistance in the information age is a
right to hacking and I'm very eager to
defend that and vindicate that principle
going forward wasn't the answer I was
expecting okay let's see so at this
point I'm actually just trying to throw
you the curveball okay
so you've got you've taken a very little
L libertarian socialist stance on I mean
you seem to be very ideologically
consistent here who is paying your bills
thirteen from every one of the fifty
states we have u.s. expat citizens
supporters who live abroad now so
literally the Sun never sets on our
support base and unlike the British
Empire which Colin on is the land of
where my forebears came I didn't have to
fire a shot to do it or enslave anyone
or you know move anybody around the
world I'm very grateful for the support
of all the people that have stepped
forward I often say to people I'm just a
Schmo with a pen you know and I don't
have a family legacy I'm an immigrant my
family lost our house when I was 16 I
got my undergrad degree going in high
school for ten years I'm just a Schmo
but what's put me in a position to
challenge the most powerful corporate
politician on the planet is precisely
the backing of thousands of my neighbors
not just in San Francisco but far beyond
and I'm so grateful for that help you
know we saw the impact of
last week in particular so we ended up
raising it for the primary cycle which
we just took second place in half a
million dollars and you know that's the
as the strongest challenge that Pelosi
has ever faced and we're just getting
started we have another eight months to
go it's the beginning of a new cycle
we're starting with some resources on
hand a fully professionalized developed
campaign team
hundreds of volunteers we're going to be
hitting the ground running in the next
several months and making the case for
why we need these paradigm shifting
policies to meet the needs of the future
like Medicare for all and paid sick
leave to keep and you know stopping ice
from seizing immigrants when they go to
the hospital or the courthouse to make
sure that we can deal with this pandemic
threat sensibly instead of irrationally
and maniacally in the way that our
criminal president would prefer you know
ice has declared basically a crackdown
on sanctuary cities across the country
including San Francisco I was at a press
conference at which members of our
public defender's office were speaking
just yesterday at the Hall of Justice
defending civil rights defending
immigrant rights and defending our
cities sovereignty and commitments in
the face of a criterion federal
crackdown that synthesis I would
describe of libertarian principles as it
relates to the state and socialist
policies as it relates to the expansion
of human rights to encompass our human
needs you know we don't have a lot of
affirmative rights we have negative
rights their rights to theoretically be
free from for instance government
surveillance which is ubiquitous rights
to be free from unreasonable searches
and seizures which happen all the time
rights to due process isn't a is a thin
affirmative commitment because we do
have minimal due process protection
protections that we do commit to but I
want to see us commit to rights to
housing and health care and food and
education those are rights that not only
benefit the individual who receives them
but they benefit our civilization we
have an opportunity at the moment I
think a lot of Americans are waking up
to how bad life in the United States can
be if you're not a billionaire and then
it's that we're not alone than the
struggles that we share and if we're
able to get on the other side of this if
we can throw off the yoke of the
bipartisan corporate rule that has
constrained our responses to our social
crises
if we can ensure that everybody has an
opportunity in the new economy if we can
ensure that everybody can get to a
doctor if we can ensure that your kids
and your grandkids can survive we have
the opportunity I think not only to meet
the crises of this moment but to create
a whole new spectrum of opportunities
for the future and and I see that
promise I'm really excited by it
that's the socialist thing that inspires
me at the same time as the dystopia and
the authoritarianism that looms also
terrifies me I think both of those
strands that are that are fueling our
campaign and am I run to replace Nancy
so here's a question I asked pretty much
everybody that comes on the show what is
something that anybody who watches this
what is something that they can do to
better their community they can act on
their own what is one way right now tell
us how to change the world thank you so
much for asking that because that's
where the action is actually that step
one is proactively curate your news
sources your listeners are probably
doing that already because they're
listening to you and not the lies that
they're gonna hear on Fox News or MSNBC
step two is meet your neighbors we can
develop concerns in isolation but it's
only when we organize and we connect
that we can do anything about it
individual solutions to grand problems
are ultimately and necessarily
incontestable but when you meet your
neighbors and you talk about your shared
concerns and this is the key when you
come up with plans to do something
together whatever it is I don't even
care what it is you can write letters to
some official you can stand on a street
corner with some signs you can host a
teach-in
at the community center of the library
you can go to the nearest college and
try to find some students who are
organizing around whatever you care
about and connect with them you can take
a trip to your State Capitol and Lobby
your state officials there's so many
ways to get involved and it again I
don't even think it matters how I mean I
just think what matters most is that
people do the thing whatever the thing
looks like to you I've seen people use
all kinds of different shared as
platforms for organizing some of my
earliest political acts we're organizing
collectives of politicized artists
hip-hop artists emcee spoken word
artists comedians so there's three
different groups
Stanford's spoken word collect
in Palo Alto the DC guerrilla poetry
insurgency and an outdoor poetry
conversions that happen every week in
San Francisco for the last 17 years and
I've had a chance in pulling each of
them together they're all still active
and you know together they've turned out
probably at this point thousands of
artists and visionaries who are in their
own ways in small rooms and big rooms on
street corners on train platforms you
know they're there polemically making
the case in public and for me that was
about poetry and creative writing as a
vehicle to express a political
sensibility in that and that started
each of those collectives just start
with started with groups of poets
sharing their frustrations sharing their
poetry and coming up with a plan for how
to share and promote it so we've got
curate the news so educate get together
with your neighbors who organize and
then do the thing agitate I like it like
educates awards to a strategic goal
general strike people ask me what
happens if Trump steals the election and
that's a real question we can't take for
granted that he would leave the White
House if he's beaten in the election and
and at that point all bets are off if we
the people are not ready to respond by
reclaiming our sovereignty the only way
we can do that is mass work stoppage and
that taking organizing you have to know
your neighbors in order to pull that off
the Montgomery bus boycott wasn't just a
boycott people self-organized riots they
still got to work they just found other
ways to get their communities came
together to provide alternatives to the
institutional services and a mass
workshop that you know communities and
families we're still going to need to
eat so like figuring out how to do that
even if people aren't working for a
while that's almost like the million
dollar question and until we gain the
capacity to assert ourselves
collectively
I fear that we could continue to be
preyed upon by institutions that have
the opportunity to turn a deaf ear to us
and a blind eye to our concerns and I'm
fighting in the electoral Reno because I
still have faith in the democratic
process and I think if enough of us
engage we can flip some of these seats
and change the policies at the end of
the day as I mentioned before there are
plenty of holes in the bucket of our
democracy and it might take steps beyond
and the democratic levers to defend it
and I think a general strike is the
strongest tool in the box that we the
people have okay all right
plug your site again you give everybody
the information they need is I gotta
fill in you you want some hearts and
minds tonight thank you folks can find
us online at shaw head for changed on us
that's sha hid for change done us
we're also on all of the social media
platforms instagram twitter and facebook
at shahid for change alright okay guys
so that's gonna wrap up the interview
for tonight it's just a thought and
we'll see you probably tomorrow thanks a
lot